---
title: On major holidays
description: 
tags: [ blog, personal ]
---

I've acknowledged for a little while now that I tend to get down at the end of a 
year (as do many people), due in no small part I think to the obligation of 
participation in major holidays. "Obligation" might seem like a funny word to 
use -- for me though, its the best descriptor of the experiences I've had 
throughout my entire life. What follows is an attempt to explain how I've arrived 
at that conclusion.

* * *

My brother and I's parents divorced when we were both very young. Our father 
rightly won custody of us (which was rare at that time). On weekends we'd visit 
our mother -- every Friday afternoon our stepmother would drive us across town, 
or more often, to another town where our mother lived for these weekend 
visitations. And she moved a lot, so it was rarely the same place year to year. 
We'd make the return trip on Sunday evenings.

Then there were the holidays, particularly the major ones -- Thanksgiving and 
Christmas. It was "important" that my brother and I spend time with all possible 
family units (immediate, extended, steps, etc.) every year. We took it as a 
matter of course that we'd spend X hours/days here, Y hours/days there, Z 
hours/days over there ad infinitum -- we'd always be traveling around, always 
be awkward interlopers at this or that family gathering, always have some other 
obligation that was next on the agenda. Time management was critical for keeping 
all interested parties satisfied.

I don't mean to suggest that these travels were joyless or somehow "too much" 
for us -- it wasn't always easy, but we were certainly well cared for. Sunny 
idiots might even say that "more family just means more people to love you!", 
and that isn't false on some level. As a kid at least, 5 or 6 Christmas events 
generally translated to some pretty fat sacks of loot! And I absolutely loved 
Thanksgiving in particular for years.

I will suggest, however that growing up like that may tend to foster a 
don't-rock-the-boat type of attitude in a kid -- for me at least, it seemed 
important that everyone be kept happy, feel like they got their "fair share" of 
time, etc. And I'd also suggest that many, many adults still feel that burden 
today as now-hosts to such events.

* * *

I did the weekend visitations until I was 14 or 15 -- at that point it became 
much more important to me to try to have a "normal" teenage life. (You know, try to 
have real friends and stuff.) But it was not to be -- not long after that, we 
moved to another state because our father was transferred. New school, new 
people, new distances to cover during the holidays, and admittedly a whole lot of 
new anger. I had my driver's license and a car by then, so the holidays became 
road trip time for my brother and I. He and I didn't have a lot in common at that 
point in our lives, but we'd always had that shared experience of "holiday 
road warrior" and we were still in it together regardless -- we both got pretty 
good at just putting the hammer down and driving for hours on end across states. 
We did that for quite a few years -- if nothing else, those trips gave us both 
a chance to sort of compare notes on all these travels we'd had together so far.

Our father and stepmother divorced when I was 20 or so, then he had another 
remarriage and there were new steps when I was in my late 20s. Both events 
expanded the pool of people to see and visit and care about separately even 
further. And I did actively try to keep up with all of it for a while.

But the more years that passed, the greater the distances that existed between 
us all, and the ever-changing dynamic (or expiration) of each family unit 
(some I'm semi-ashamed to admit that I'm barely or not involved in their lives 
at all) -- have caused me to now actively dread November and December. I can't 
accept the "pressure to perform" anymore, or the guilt of choosing to prioritize one 
family unit over another because sheer distance or even (gasp!) my own personal 
obligations just make doing it all every year impossible. And that sense of being 
an awkward interloper hasn't really gone away either -- it may even be more 
differently pronounced now that I'm in my late 30s and haven't chosen to be 
married or make babies or any of the rest of it. Which probably aren't surprising 
choices based on my own life experiences.

* * *

The holidays are tough for a lot of people, no doubt about it; the "pain" is of 
course relative to the individual -- I just wrote all this down to help myself 
articulate my own scheduled, nebulous dread.

More than anything though, I think I'm just tired of all of it -- tired of trying 
to keep everyone else happy, tired of pretending to care about "family members" 
I barely know in some cases, tired of the "required maintenance" for those that 
I did once know very well, tired of traveling even. All of which could conceivably 
be labeled as "ingratitude" -- it isn't. Its weariness that comes having lived a 
lifetime trying to juggle it all. I am very grateful for all the family members 
that have had a lasting and positive influence on my life.

Plain and simple, I just find it all overwhelming this time of year -- I get lost 
in the memory of all the years prior, all the changes and general ridiculousness
that has come to be the present. There is no "rock" or "home" left as I maybe 
knew them to be somewhere in the distant past. So if I can somehow feel less 
overwhelmed and more happy or comfortable by choosing NOT to participate in these 
major holidays -- then that's exactly what I'll do.


