---
title: Brother
description: Probably not any of your business, but you can read it if you 
  like. Maybe you'll be inspired.
tags: [ blog, personal ]
---

Thank you so much for your hospitality these last few weeks -- it means so much 
to me that there's always a place I know I can go, no matter what is going on 
in my own life. This time it wasn't "bad" circumstances that brought me around 
here -- but certainly challenging. Either way, you've probably seen the best and 
worst of me at this point. And I'm not proud of that by any means...it just is 
what it is.

Thank you for the forgiveness, grace, and just plain ol' genuine friendship you 
have shown me over the years; I don't believe I've ever deserved it, but you've 
always given it just the same. We've lived at least half a life mostly together 
at this point -- and more than anyone else, you understand me. And I you I 
think, for the most part.

I just wanted to say the above, and also let you know that I am so so proud of 
the person you've become. You're a Mow and a Thompson and a Hammond, and even a 
Iuliano -- and to me, you're bigger than each of those. I don't know who else 
would/could say it at this point, but I believe Mary Jo, and Charlie, and Luke 
and Goldie, and both Joes would be so proud of who you are. You said a few days 
ago that you may have weathered all of the storms better than I -- and I can 
not disagree. I've always taken it all in too close; you have something else in 
play. You're one of (if not) the best of "our generation". Just my opinion, of 
course. You're a lion in your own right (though I'm sure you'd beg to differ), 
and you are truly inspirational in your own quiet path. Not just to me, I'm 
sure.

I love you brother, and I always will. Thank you for who you are, and who you 
always will be.

